---
layout: post
title:  "Evidence Highlighting"
categories: focal
---
Trusting your data is an important part of having a good analytic product. As Regan was quoated, trust but verify. That is what we sought out to do with the Evidence Bighlighting tool in the Explorys suite. There was a lot of feedback coming from customers and users around not understanding how the analytics were calculating the results,. The users were given a final answer and some rules around how it worked but it essentially was a black box to them. A lot of custeomer service calls were taking up resources in house to answer questions around why or why not a analytic did or did not include a patient when they believed it should have. Sometimes the data was not clean on their and and updating their records would fix the problem. What they couldn't exaclt;y see is what was the specific reason of x to the 10 criteria ion a patient's record was the reason. I . order to find the answer requiered hours of digging through a patients profile making sure it first matched with what heir EMR source said as well as was it inclusive or not in the analytic. We were not concerned so much with giving away any secret sausse to the analytic as most of the ones were were running were goverments CMS sanctioned. Communicating this was the callenge. We started by having interviews with internal customer service reps who would be responsible for getting this information out to the client. We also interviewed clients themselves on how and why these issues were arising which revealed more concernse with data trust.We consulted orhger stakeholders and architecte and then colaborted with PM and dev to consoder some solutions . Through storyboarding we came up with some really great options that were technically not feasable with the companies current stack. Iterating through some concepts we came up with a solution we wantred to test. Key driteria we wanted to meet was that this solution would be automated. In that we had over 400 analytics and needed to support without creating custom content for each. We settled on a combinatiomn of pulling content from CMS and the computer readable XML documentation that already existed. In the end ot was decision tree that would be able to pinpoint what emr code was used on a specific patient to eithe inclued or exclude them from an analytic. We ran out several usablility tests with sponsore users to check the valididty of our solution. With some iterating we were able to come up with something that not only saved our customer reps but also was something the clients could use for themselves. This too was a too that then was addopted by the sales team. It was discoverd through our usablility testing with the client that in manay cases they were not aware of what the analytic they purchased was doing. This allowed for more transparency up front and faster sprrd to value for the client.
